In the last lecture we talked about creating the flash messages to signal to the user that successful
thing has happened and this is how we did that by using the request session method and the session object
flash method to add a variable to the session called status with its content.
The blog post was created.
Now let's see how we can verify if this data is actually valid.
It means the same as we expected it to be.
Or at least if it's not empty.
And then tell the user that it was incorrect because we expect the title to be present and content to
be present.
Otherwise it wouldn't make much sense to store an empty blog post.
So we will also use a method from the request object that we are here in the parameters least of the
store method and it has another handy method that we can use to verify the data.
So we'll assign the result of this method to validated data new variable and the request has a method
called validate now the validate accepts an array in which we'll specify our validation rules.
So it's pretty simple.
We start by using a key which will reflect the Field's name that we have sent through the form.
So we have a title
and then there will be a string which will specify what validation rules have to be used for the title.
Since we also have a content and we expect the content to be validated let's add it right now.
So now we have no validation rules.
So let's add first so we'll use strings for those validation rules and I will also include a link to
this lecture from the Loreto documentation where you can see all that possible validation rules.
So there are plenty of them so let's just start with the simplest ones so we'll specify that the title
and content is required.
So to specify more rules you will separate them using vertical bar character and we might add another
rule to the title specifying that its length has to be at most 255 characters.
We can even specified as hundred for example.
So this way we would we would separate all the rules inside the string.
But now let's comment that out for a second.
Save the changes and let's see what happens if we do not have any validation rules.
So here we are inside our up inside on the adblock post link.
Empty fields and we press create.
So we get error back straight from the database.
It is askew all error that the column title cannot be know and it will also be present for the content
because we've also haven't specified the value for content.
You can see two commas and here there are actually empty values so now if we would command this code
let's see what happens.
So now we are calling the request validate mind that you have to save the changes and let us go back
to the forum and press create so you can see that nothing happens.
Let's click it again and actually something did happen.
So the way the validation works in Lavell by default and at least it works this way for traditional
web applications where you would send a forum not for the objects or requests.
Let's go to the network top to see this so you can see that it actually was sent to the post to the
post you are using the post method and it ended up with redirect.
So 302 means that it was redirected.
So the way it works it validated the data the data was incorrect in our case we wanted the title and
content to be present.
So we added the required route and also we specified the length the maximum length of the title and
the validator check this data realize that it's that those viruses are not present and larval automatically
created a redirect response that will always redirect to the previous page.
So you can see that now we are on the create page so lovable also.
Well we should also display some errors to this forum but we'll get to that in a second.
Just so you know this is the basic most basic way that you will validate your content using the request
validate method and specifying the validation rules using the key the field name as a key.
So I mean that's the Field's name from the form not the field from the database.
And then the value of the key would be the all the rules separated by vertical bar bar.
If you have more than one rule.